README.adoc, before:

// Copyright 2022-2023 The Khronos Group Inc.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

= Vulkan Documentation Project Site Generator

This repository is used to build an experimental integrated Vulkan
documentation site using the
link:https://antora.org/[Antora] site generator.

An online version of the resulting site is located at
https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/site/index.html
(this URL is likely to change in the future).

The site generator currently combines the
link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Docs[Vulkan Specification and
proposal documents] and the
link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Guide[Vulkan Guide], with more
components expected to be added in the future.

This repository contains only the Antora "`playbook`" describing the various
documentation components and how to integrate them, and related files needed
to build the site using the playbook.

Content for individual components comes from the repositories hosting those
components.


== Files

* `docs-site/` - Antora project directory.
** `docs-site/antora-playbook.yml` - Antora playbook
** `docs-site/node_modules` - Antora executable and related modules.
** `docs-site/package.json` / `package-lock.json` - Node.js infrastructure /
   module database
** `docs-site/ui-bundle.zip` - cached version of Antora default UI bundle
** `docs-site/supplemental-ui/` - supplemental UI files overlaying default
   UI bundle


== Installation

You will need current long-term support versions of Node.js (18.x).

Antora itself is preinstalled under `docs-site/node_modules/` along with all
Javascript dependencies.
*If and only if* you need to install these modules elsewhere, the installation
can be reproduced by:

[source,sh]
----
node -e "fs.writeFileSync('package.json', '{}')"
npm i -D -E @antora/cli@3.1 @antora/site-generator@3.1 @djencks/asciidoctor-mathjax @antora/lunr-extension
----


== Running

Other repositories containing content for the various components must be
pulled and configured before the site can be built.
Currently, we do not take advantage of Antora's capability of
pulling content directly from github.
Instead, the repositories must be cloned locally on specific paths
hard-wired into the playbook, followed by steps to prepare their content for
use with Antora.
Eventually, we expect to use the Antora Collector extension to make this
process simpler and more transparent.
At present, you should clone the repositories as follows:

[source,sh]
----
$ mkdir -p /home/tree/git
$ cd /home/tree/git
$ git clone git@github.com:KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Site.git
$ git clone git@github.com:KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Docs.git
$ git clone git@github.com:KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Guide.git
----

Once the repositories are cloned, you will need to be running in an
environment containing all the tools to build the Vulkan Specification, as
described in the
link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Docs/blob/main/BUILD.adoc[Vulkan-Docs
BUILD document].
We recommend using the Khronos-provided Docker image described in that
document, rather than trying to install everything yourself and keep it up
to date.

At this point, you should be able to build via

[source,sh]
----
$ cd /home/tree/git/Vulkan-Site/docs-site
$ make prepare_components
$ make build_site
$ chromium build/site/index.html
----

(or whatever browser you prefer instead of Chromium).


== Feedback

Please provide feedback on the documentation project using the
link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Site/issues[Vulkan-Site issues
tracker].
At this stage we are primarily interested in feedback on the usability of
the site.

Commit message:

Make VUIDs into selectable anchors and improve topbar navigation a bit
Adds vuid-expander and genanchorlinks extensions to the asciidoctor
build so VUIDs are selectable.

Move to using a UI bundle from the KhronosGroup/antora-ui-khronos
project, which forks the Antora UI. The new bundle slightly improves
topbar navigation.

README.adoc, after:

// Copyright 2022-2023 The Khronos Group Inc.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

= Vulkan Documentation Project Site Generator

This repository is used to build an experimental integrated Vulkan
documentation site using the
link:https://antora.org/[Antora] site generator.

An online version of the resulting site is located at
https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/site/index.html
(this URL is likely to change in the future).

The site generator currently combines the
link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Docs[Vulkan Specification and
proposal documents] and the
link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Guide[Vulkan Guide], with more
components expected to be added in the future.

This repository contains only the Antora "`playbook`" describing the various
documentation components and how to integrate them, and related files needed
to build the site using the playbook.

Content for individual components comes from the repositories hosting those
components.


== Files

* `docs-site/` - Antora project directory.
** `docs-site/antora-playbook.yml` - Antora playbook
** `docs-site/node_modules` - Antora executable and related modules.
** `docs-site/package.json` / `package-lock.json` - Node.js infrastructure /
   module database
** `docs-site/ui-bundle.zip` - cached version of Antora UI bundle.
   This is built from the
   link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/antora-ui-khronos[Khronos Antora UI]
   project, which is forked from the Antora default UI.


== Installation

You will need current long-term support versions of Node.js (18.x).

Antora itself is preinstalled under `docs-site/node_modules/` along with all
Javascript dependencies.
*If and only if* you need to install these modules elsewhere, the installation
can be reproduced by:

[source,sh]
----
node -e "fs.writeFileSync('package.json', '{}')"
npm i -D -E @antora/cli@3.1 @antora/site-generator@3.1 @djencks/asciidoctor-mathjax @antora/lunr-extension
----


== Running

Other repositories containing content for the various components must be
pulled and configured before the site can be built.
Currently, we do not take advantage of Antora's capability of
pulling content directly from github.
Instead, the repositories must be cloned locally on specific paths
hard-wired into the playbook, followed by steps to prepare their content for
use with Antora.
Eventually, we expect to use the Antora Collector extension to make this
process simpler and more transparent.
At present, you should clone the repositories as follows:

[source,sh]
----
$ mkdir -p /home/tree/git
$ cd /home/tree/git
$ git clone git@github.com:KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Site.git
$ git clone git@github.com:KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Docs.git
$ git clone git@github.com:KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Guide.git
----

Once the repositories are cloned, you will need to be running in an
environment containing all the tools to build the Vulkan Specification, as
described in the
link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Docs/blob/main/BUILD.adoc[Vulkan-Docs
BUILD document].
We recommend using the Khronos-provided Docker image described in that
document, rather than trying to install everything yourself and keep it up
to date.

At this point, you should be able to build via

[source,sh]
----
$ cd /home/tree/git/Vulkan-Site/docs-site
$ make prepare_components
$ make GUIDEBRANCH=main SPECBRANCH=main build_site
$ chromium build/site/index.html
----

(or whatever browser you prefer instead of Chromium).


== Feedback

Please provide feedback on the documentation project using the
link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Site/issues[Vulkan-Site issues
tracker].
At this stage we are primarily interested in feedback on the usability of
the site.
