# VK_EXT_device_address_binding_report(3)

## Metadata

- **Component**: refpages
- **Version**: latest
- **URL**: /refpages/latest/refpages/source/VK_EXT_device_address_binding_report.html

## Table of Contents

- [Name](#_name)
- [VK_EXT_device_address_binding_report](#VK_EXT_device_address_binding_report)
- [Other Extension Metadata](#_other_extension_metadata)
- [Other_Extension_Metadata](#_other_extension_metadata)
- [Description](#_description)
- [New Structures](#_new_structures)
- [New Enums](#_new_enums)
- [New Bitmasks](#_new_bitmasks)
- [New Enum Constants](#_new_enum_constants)
- [New_Enum_Constants](#_new_enum_constants)
- [Issues](#_issues)
- [Version History](#_version_history)
- [See Also](#_see_also)
- [Document Notes](#_document_notes)

## Content

VK_EXT_device_address_binding_report - device extension

**Name String**

`VK_EXT_device_address_binding_report`

**Extension Type**

Device extension

**Registered Extension Number**

355

**Revision**

1

**Ratification Status**

Ratified

**Extension and Version Dependencies**

     [VK_KHR_get_physical_device_properties2](VK_KHR_get_physical_device_properties2.html)

     or

     [Vulkan Version 1.1](../../../../spec/latest/appendices/versions.html#versions-1.1)

and

[VK_EXT_debug_utils](VK_EXT_debug_utils.html)

**Special Uses**

* 
[Debugging tools](../../../../spec/latest/chapters/extensions.html#extendingvulkan-compatibility-specialuse)

* 
[Developer tools](../../../../spec/latest/chapters/extensions.html#extendingvulkan-compatibility-specialuse)

**Contact**

* 
Ralph Potter r_potter

**Last Modified Date**

2020-11-23

**Interactions and External Dependencies**

* 
This extension requires `VK_EXT_debug_utils`

**Contributors**

* 
Ralph Potter, Samsung

* 
Spencer Fricke, Samsung

* 
Jan-Harald Fredriksen, ARM

* 
Andrew Ellem, Google

* 
Alex Walters, IMG

* 
Jeff Bolz, NVIDIA

This extension enables applications to track the binding of regions of the
GPU virtual address space, and to associate those regions with Vulkan
objects.
This extension is primarily intended to aid in crash postmortem, where
applications may wish to map a faulting GPU address to a Vulkan object.

For example, a page fault triggered by accessing an address located within a
region of the GPU virtual address space that was previously reported as
bound and then unbound may indicate a use-after-free error.
Similarly, faults generated by accessing virtual addresses outside the
limits of a bound region of GPU virtual address space may indicate indexing
beyond the bounds of a resource.

* 
Extending [VkDebugUtilsMessengerCallbackDataEXT](VkDebugUtilsMessengerCallbackDataEXT.html):

[VkDeviceAddressBindingCallbackDataEXT](VkDeviceAddressBindingCallbackDataEXT.html)

Extending [VkPhysicalDeviceFeatures2](VkPhysicalDeviceFeatures2.html), [VkDeviceCreateInfo](VkDeviceCreateInfo.html):

* 
[VkPhysicalDeviceAddressBindingReportFeaturesEXT](VkPhysicalDeviceAddressBindingReportFeaturesEXT.html)

* 
[VkDeviceAddressBindingFlagBitsEXT](VkDeviceAddressBindingFlagBitsEXT.html)

* 
[VkDeviceAddressBindingTypeEXT](VkDeviceAddressBindingTypeEXT.html)

* 
[VkDeviceAddressBindingFlagsEXT](VkDeviceAddressBindingFlagsEXT.html)

* 
`VK_EXT_DEVICE_ADDRESS_BINDING_REPORT_EXTENSION_NAME`

* 
`VK_EXT_DEVICE_ADDRESS_BINDING_REPORT_SPEC_VERSION`

* 
Extending [VkDebugUtilsMessageTypeFlagBitsEXT](VkDebugUtilsMessageTypeFlagBitsEXT.html):

[VK_DEBUG_UTILS_MESSAGE_TYPE_DEVICE_ADDRESS_BINDING_BIT_EXT](VkDebugUtilsMessageTypeFlagBitsEXT.html)

Extending [VkStructureType](VkStructureType.html):

* 
[VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_DEVICE_ADDRESS_BINDING_CALLBACK_DATA_EXT](VkStructureType.html)

* 
[VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PHYSICAL_DEVICE_ADDRESS_BINDING_REPORT_FEATURES_EXT](VkStructureType.html)

1.) Should this extend VK_EXT_debug_utils or VK_EXT_device_memory_report?

**RESOLVED**: Extend VK_EXT_debug_utils.
VK_EXT_device_memory_report focuses on memory allocations and would not
normally trigger callbacks in all of the situations where
VK_EXT_device_address_binding_report is expected to.

2.) Should this extension cover all Vulkan object types, or only resources
such as buffers and images?

**RESOLVED**: The extension covers all Vulkan objects, and is not restricted
to objects backed by VkDeviceMemory objects.

3.) Should reallocation be identified explicitly, or as an unbind/bind pair?

**RESOLVED**: Reallocation should be represented as an unbind/bind pair.

4.) Can multiple Vulkan objects share an overlapping virtual address range?

**RESOLVED**: Yes.
This can be expected to occur due to resources aliasing.

5.) Can a single Vulkan object be associated with multiple virtual address
ranges concurrently?

**RESOLVED**: Yes.
These should be reported via multiple calls to the reporting callback.

6.) Should the virtual address ranges associated with internal allocations
such as memory pools be reported?

**RESOLVED**: Virtual address ranges associated with internal allocations
should only be reported when they become associated with a specific Vulkan
object.
In the case of internal pool allocations, a bind event should be reported
when resources from the pool are assigned to a Vulkan object, and an unbind
event should be reported when those resources are returned to the pool.
Implementations should not report the binding or unbinding of virtual
address ranges for which there are no related API objects visible to the
application developer.

7.) Can an implementation report binding a virtual address range at VkImage
or VkImageView creation, rather than in response to vkBindImageMemory?

**RESOLVED**: Yes.
Virtual address range binding should be reported at the appropriate point at
which it occurs within the implementation.
This extension does not mandate when that should occur, and applications
should anticipate receiving callback events at any point after registering
callbacks.

8.) Can reporting of binding/unbinding be deferred until a resource is
referenced by an executing command buffer?

**RESOLVED**: Changes to the virtual address ranges associated with a Vulkan
object should be reported as close as possible to where they occur within
the implementation.
If virtual address binding is deferred, then the callback should also be
deferred to match.

9.) Do bind/unbind callbacks have to form matched pairs? Can a large region
be bound, and then subregions unbound, resulting in fragmentation?

**RESOLVED**: Splitting of virtual address regions, and unmatched bind/unbind
callbacks may occur.
Developers should anticipate that sparse memory may exhibit this behavior.

10.) The specification mandates that a callback **must** be triggered whenever
a GPU virtual address range associated with any Vulkan object is bound or
unbound.
Do we need queries or properties indicating which Vulkan objects will report
binding modifications?

**RESOLVED**: No.
This extension is not intended to mandate how and when implementations bind
virtual ranges to objects.
Adding queries or properties would constrain implementations, which might
otherwise vary how virtual address bindings occur based on usage.

11.) Should vkAllocateMemory and vkFreeMemory trigger reporting callbacks?

**RESOLVED**: If an implementation binds a GPU virtual address range when
vkAllocateMemory is called, then the callbacks must be triggered associating
the virtual address range with the VkDeviceMemory object.
If the device memory is subsequently bound to a buffer or image via
vkBind*Memory, the callbacks should be triggered a second time, reporting
the association between virtual address range and the buffer/image.

12.) Should binding reports be emitted for vkQueueBindSparse() operations?

**RESOLVED**: binding reports for sparse objects are best effort, some
implementations might report events on vkQueueBindSparse() other
implementations might report events on sparse object creation/destruction.

* 
Revision 1, 2020-09-23 (Ralph Potter)

Internal revisions

No cross-references are available

For more information, see the [Vulkan Specification](../../../../spec/latest/appendices/extensions.html#VK_EXT_device_address_binding_report).

This page is a generated document.
Fixes and changes should be made to the generator scripts, not directly.
