# VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties(3)

## Metadata

- **Component**: refpages
- **Version**: latest
- **URL**: /refpages/latest/refpages/source/VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties.html

## Table of Contents

- [Name](#_name)
- [C Specification](#_c_specification)
- [Members](#_members)
- [Description](#_description)
- [See Also](#_see_also)
- [Document Notes](#_document_notes)

## Content

VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties - Structure specifying physical device properties for functionality promoted to Vulkan 1.1

The `VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties` structure is defined as:

// Provided by VK_VERSION_1_2
typedef struct VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties {
    VkStructureType            sType;
    void*                      pNext;
    uint8_t                    deviceUUID[VK_UUID_SIZE];
    uint8_t                    driverUUID[VK_UUID_SIZE];
    uint8_t                    deviceLUID[VK_LUID_SIZE];
    uint32_t                   deviceNodeMask;
    VkBool32                   deviceLUIDValid;
    uint32_t                   subgroupSize;
    VkShaderStageFlags         subgroupSupportedStages;
    VkSubgroupFeatureFlags     subgroupSupportedOperations;
    VkBool32                   subgroupQuadOperationsInAllStages;
    VkPointClippingBehavior    pointClippingBehavior;
    uint32_t                   maxMultiviewViewCount;
    uint32_t                   maxMultiviewInstanceIndex;
    VkBool32                   protectedNoFault;
    uint32_t                   maxPerSetDescriptors;
    VkDeviceSize               maxMemoryAllocationSize;
} VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties;

* 
`sType` is a [VkStructureType](VkStructureType.html) value identifying this structure.

* 
`pNext` is `NULL` or a pointer to a structure extending this
structure.

* 
`deviceUUID` is an array of [VK_UUID_SIZE](VK_UUID_SIZE.html) `uint8_t` values
representing a universally unique identifier for the device.

* 
`driverUUID` is an array of [VK_UUID_SIZE](VK_UUID_SIZE.html) `uint8_t` values
representing a universally unique identifier for the driver build in use
by the device.

* 
`deviceLUID` is an array of [VK_LUID_SIZE](VK_LUID_SIZE.html) `uint8_t` values
representing a locally unique identifier for the device.

* 
`deviceNodeMask` is a `uint32_t` bitfield identifying the node
within a linked device adapter corresponding to the device.

* 
`deviceLUIDValid` is a boolean value that will be [VK_TRUE](VK_TRUE.html) if
`deviceLUID` contains a valid LUID and `deviceNodeMask` contains
a valid node mask, and [VK_FALSE](VK_FALSE.html) if they do not.

* 
 `subgroupSize` is the default
number of invocations in each subgroup.
`subgroupSize` is at least 1 if any of the physical device’s queues
support [VK_QUEUE_GRAPHICS_BIT](VkQueueFlagBits.html) or [VK_QUEUE_COMPUTE_BIT](VkQueueFlagBits.html).
`subgroupSize` is a power-of-two.

* 

`subgroupSupportedStages` is a bitfield of [VkShaderStageFlagBits](VkShaderStageFlagBits.html)
describing the shader stages that [group    operations](../../../../spec/latest/chapters/shaders.html#shaders-group-operations) with [subgroup scope](../../../../spec/latest/chapters/shaders.html#shaders-scope-subgroup) are
supported in.
`subgroupSupportedStages` will have the [VK_SHADER_STAGE_COMPUTE_BIT](VkShaderStageFlagBits.html)
bit set if any of the physical device’s queues support
[VK_QUEUE_COMPUTE_BIT](VkQueueFlagBits.html).

* 

`subgroupSupportedOperations` is a bitmask of
[VkSubgroupFeatureFlagBits](VkSubgroupFeatureFlagBits.html) specifying the sets of
[group operations](../../../../spec/latest/chapters/shaders.html#shaders-group-operations) with
[subgroup scope](../../../../spec/latest/chapters/shaders.html#shaders-scope-subgroup) supported on this device.
`subgroupSupportedOperations` will have the
[VK_SUBGROUP_FEATURE_BASIC_BIT](VkSubgroupFeatureFlagBits.html) bit set if any of the physical
device’s queues support [VK_QUEUE_GRAPHICS_BIT](VkQueueFlagBits.html) or
[VK_QUEUE_COMPUTE_BIT](VkQueueFlagBits.html).

* 

`subgroupQuadOperationsInAllStages` is a boolean specifying whether
[quad group operations](../../../../spec/latest/chapters/shaders.html#shaders-quad-operations) are available in all
stages, or are restricted to fragment and compute stages.

* 
 `pointClippingBehavior` is a
[VkPointClippingBehavior](VkPointClippingBehavior.html) value specifying the point clipping
behavior supported by the implementation.

* 

`maxMultiviewViewCount` is one greater than the maximum view index
that **can** be used in a subpass.

* 

`maxMultiviewInstanceIndex` is the maximum valid value of instance
index allowed to be generated by a drawing command recorded within a
subpass of a multiview render pass instance.

* 
 `protectedNoFault`
specifies how an implementation behaves when an application attempts to
write to unprotected memory in a protected queue operation, read from
protected memory in an unprotected queue operation, or perform a query
in a protected queue operation.
If this limit is [VK_TRUE](VK_TRUE.html), such writes will be discarded or have
**undefined** values written; reads and queries will return poison.
If this limit is [VK_FALSE](VK_FALSE.html), applications **must** not perform these
operations.
See [Protected Memory Access Rules](../../../../spec/latest/chapters/memory.html#memory-protected-access-rules) for more information.

* 

`maxPerSetDescriptors` is a maximum number of descriptors (summed
over all descriptor types) in a single descriptor set that is guaranteed
to satisfy any implementation-dependent constraints on the size of a
descriptor set itself.
Applications **can** query whether a descriptor set that goes beyond this
limit is supported using [vkGetDescriptorSetLayoutSupport](vkGetDescriptorSetLayoutSupport.html).

* 

`maxMemoryAllocationSize` is the maximum size of a memory allocation
that **can** be created, even if there is more space available in the heap.
If [VkMemoryAllocateInfo](VkMemoryAllocateInfo.html)::`allocationSize` is larger the error
[VK_ERROR_OUT_OF_DEVICE_MEMORY](VkResult.html) **may** be returned.

If the `VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties` structure is included in the `pNext` chain of the
[VkPhysicalDeviceProperties2](VkPhysicalDeviceProperties2.html) structure passed to
[vkGetPhysicalDeviceProperties2](vkGetPhysicalDeviceProperties2.html), it is filled in with each
corresponding implementation-dependent property.

These properties correspond to Vulkan 1.1 functionality.

The members of `VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties` have the same values
as the corresponding members of [VkPhysicalDeviceIDProperties](VkPhysicalDeviceIDProperties.html),
[VkPhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties](VkPhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties.html),
[VkPhysicalDevicePointClippingProperties](VkPhysicalDevicePointClippingProperties.html),
[VkPhysicalDeviceMultiviewProperties](VkPhysicalDeviceMultiviewProperties.html),
[VkPhysicalDeviceProtectedMemoryProperties](VkPhysicalDeviceProtectedMemoryProperties.html), and
[VkPhysicalDeviceMaintenance3Properties](VkPhysicalDeviceMaintenance3Properties.html).

|  | The `subgroupSupportedStages`, `subgroupSupportedOperations`, and
| --- | --- |
`subgroupQuadOperationsInAllStages` members of this structure correspond
respectively to the
[VkPhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties](VkPhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties.html)::`supportedStages`,
[VkPhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties](VkPhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties.html)::`supportedOperations`, and
[VkPhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties](VkPhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties.html)::`quadOperationsInAllStages`
members, but add the `subgroup` prefix to the member name. |

Valid Usage (Implicit)

* 
[](#VUID-VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties-sType-sType) VUID-VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties-sType-sType

 `sType` **must** be [VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PHYSICAL_DEVICE_VULKAN_1_1_PROPERTIES](VkStructureType.html)

Structure Chaining

[Extends the structure](../../../../spec/latest/chapters/fundamentals.html#fundamentals-validusage-pNext)

* 
[VkPhysicalDeviceProperties2](VkPhysicalDeviceProperties2.html)

[VK_VERSION_1_2](VK_VERSION_1_2.html), `VkBool32`, `VkDeviceSize`, [VkPointClippingBehavior](VkPointClippingBehavior.html), [VkShaderStageFlags](VkShaderStageFlags.html), [VkStructureType](VkStructureType.html), [VkSubgroupFeatureFlags](VkSubgroupFeatureFlags.html)

For more information, see the [Vulkan Specification](../../../../spec/latest/chapters/devsandqueues.html#VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties).

This page is extracted from the Vulkan Specification.
Fixes and changes should be made to the Specification, not directly.
